[ENG-30192] Edge sql api ref (#959)
aziontech/docs: src/content/docs/en/pages/devtools/azion-edge-runtime/api-reference/edge-sql/edge-sql.mdx

---     |    :---:    |    :---:  |    :---:   |  :---:
next    | Returns the next line of the query response | `async next()` | `-` | `<Row>` or `null`

### Attributes

Attribute   | Description | Signature | Parameters | Return
---         |    ---    |    ---  |    ---   |  ---
`columnCount` | Returns the number of columns from the query result | `columnCount()` | `-` | `int32`
`columnName`  | Returns the column's name | `parameterName(index)` | `index: int32` | `String`
`columnType`  | Returns the column's type | `columnType(index)` | `index: int32` | `int32`

---

## Row

Represents the set of attributes and values in a row of a result set.

### Attributes

Attribute   | Description | Signature | Parameters | Return
---         |    ---    |    ---  |    ---   |  ---
`columnName` | Returns the column's name | `columnName(index)` |  `index: int32`  | `String`
`columnType` | Returns the column's type | `ColumnType(index)` |  `index: int32`  | `int32`
`getValue`   | Returns the attribute value | `getValue(index)` |  `index: int32`  | `Value`
`getString`  | Returns the attribute value as string | `getString(index)` |  `index: int32`  | `String`

## Code sample 

> The code sample shown below presents a way to interact with a database and retrieve data from a table. In this example, we're using a db called `mydatabase` and the table `users`.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The code sample shown below presents a way to interact with a database and retrieve data from a table. This example uses a db called `mydatabase` and the table `users`.
```
```

---
title: Edge SQL API 

> description: The Edge Functions SQL API is an interface that allows access to the Azion Edge SQL. Through this interface, it's possible to read and write data in the storage and its buckets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: The Edge Functions SQL API is an interface for access to Azion Edge SQL to read and write data in the storage and its buckets.
```

meta_tags: edge function, edge computing, storage, jamstack, apis
namespace: documentation_runtime_edge_sql
permalink: /documentation/devtools/runtime/api-reference/edge-sql/
menu_namespace: runtimeMenu
---

> The Edge SQL API provides an interface for interacting with an [EdgeSQL]() database from Edge Functions running on the Azion Edge Platform. This document outlines the key components of the API and provides code samples for each.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Edge SQL API** provides an interface for interacting with an [EdgeSQL](/en/documentation/products/store/edge-sql/) database from Edge Functions running on the Azion Edge Platform. This document outlines the key components of the API and provides code samples for each.
```

> 
> ## Database  

Reviewer: ```suggestion

---

## Database  
```

> Creates a connection to an EdgeSQL Database for your application. Returns a Connection type object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Creates a connection to an EdgeSQL database for your application. Returns a **Connection** type object.
```

### Methods

> Method    | Description | Signature | Parameters | Return
> ---       |    :---:    |    :---:  |    :---:  |  :---:
> Open      | Opens a connection to the read replica of an EdgeSQL database | `static async open(name)` | `name: <string>` | `<Connection>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Method  | Description | Signature | Parameters | Return |
--- | :---: | :---: | :---: |  :---: |
Open | Opens a connection to the read replica of an EdgeSQL database | `static async open(name)` | `name: <string>` | `<Connection>`
```

**Code Sample**:

```javascript
import { Database } from "azion:sql";

const db = await Database.open('my_database');
```

---

## Connection

> Represents the communication channel with a specific EdgeSQL Database. This object can be obtained by opening a database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Represents the communication channel with a specific EdgeSQL database. This object can be obtained by opening a database.
```

**Code Samples**:

```javascript
import { Database } from "azion:sql";

let rows = await connection.query("select * from users");

const result = await db.query('SELECT * FROM users WHERE id = ?', [123]);
```

```javascript
import { Database } from "azion:sql";

const db = await Database.open('my_database');

await db.execute('UPDATE users SET name = ? WHERE id = ?', ['John Doe', 123]);
```

```javascript
import { Database } from "azion:sql";

const db = await Database.open('my_database');

const statement = await db.prepare('UPDATE users SET name = ? WHERE id = ?', ['John Doe', 123]);
```

---

## Statement

An abstraction of an SQL command, the Statement object allows for the execution of the represented command. It can be created from a `Connection.prepare` command.

### Methods

Method   | Description | Signature | Parameters  | Return
---      |    ---    |    ---  |   ---     |  ---
Execute  | Executes an SQL command | `async execute(sql, params)` | `sql: [<string>] '?'  positional parameter :<param_name> params: [<param>] Array of positional values Dictionary of values` | `-`

> Query    | Executes an SQL command | `async query(sql, params)` | `sql: [<string>] '?'  positional parameter :<param_name> params: [<param>] Array of positional values Dictionary of values` | `<Rows>`

Reviewer: same description here?

}
```

---

## Row

Represents the set of attributes and values in a row of a result set.

### Attributes

Attribute   | Description | Signature | Parameters | Return
---         |    ---    |    ---  |    ---   |  ---
`columnName` | Returns the column's name | `columnName(index)` |  `index: <int32>`  | `<String>`
`columnType` | Returns the column's type | `ColumnType(index)` |  `index: <int32>`  | `<int32>`
`getValue`   | Returns the attribute value | `getValue(index)` |  `index: <int32>`  | `<Value>*`
`getString`  | Returns the attribute value as string | `getString(index)` |  `index: <int32>`  | `<String>`

**Code Sample**:
    
```javascript
import { Database } from "azion:sql";

const db = await Database.open('my_database');

const result = await db.query('SELECT * FROM users WHERE id = ?', [123]);

const row = await result.next();

console.log(row.columnName(0)); // prints the name of the first column
console.log(row.columnType(0)); // prints the type of the first column
console.log(row.getValue(0)); // prints the value of the first column
console.log(row.getString(0)); // prints the value of the first column as a string
```

> `*Note: <Value> could be a number, bigint, string, or boolean.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> <Value> could be a number, bigint, string, or boolean.
```

Reviewer: use >  or the note component
